<|ref|>title<|/ref|><|det|>[[254, 113, 710, 131]]<|/det|>
# Low-temperature retro Diels-Alder reactions

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[252, 142, 930, 170]]<|/det|>
Sadie A. Wolfarth, \( ^{a} \)  Noah J. Gibson, \( ^{a} \)  Kassandra T. Castaldi, \( ^{a} \)  Aleksa K. Banki, \( ^{a} \)  Sebastian M. Krajewski, \( ^{a} \)  James M. Mayer, \( ^{a} \)  Amymarie K. Bartholomew \( ^{*a} \) 

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[252, 184, 931, 325]]<|/det|>
The Diels-Alder (DA) reaction is a widespread synthetic tool that can be employed both in the forward and reverse directions. The retro Diels-Alder (rDA) reaction is used to prepare reactive organic molecules and, more recently, as a type of Dynamic Covalent Chemistry (DCC) for applications in polymer healing and reprocessibility. Synthetic and DCC applications of the rDA are limited by the high temperatures it typically requires. By tuning the sterics of a modular, electron-rich tetramethoxyanthracene donor platform, we are able to observe rapid rDA reactivity below -50 °C for cycloadducts with tetracyanoethylene (TCNE). We access these frontiers of reversibility by simultaneously stabilizing the free anthracene and destabilizing the DA adduct: the electron-rich nature of the tetramethoxyanthracenes lowers the energy of the starting materials, while alkyl substituents at the 9,10-positions of the anthracene donor destabilize the DA adduct. These features manifest in dynamic DA adducts with kinetically accessible DA/rDA reactions between -70 and 55 °C, as well as in the longest-known C-C bond in a DA adduct formed by intermolecular cycloaddition (1.637(4) Å).

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[67, 391, 179, 405]]<|/det|>
## Introduction

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[65, 411, 492, 751]]<|/det|>
Diels-Alder (DA) reactions are ubiquitous throughout chemistry. The utility of these reactions arises from the facile  \( [4+2] \)  cycloaddition of diene and dienophile, forming new C-C bonds, and giving rise to structurally and functionally diverse adducts. \( ^{1} \)  The synthetic utility of DA reactions is not limited to the forward reaction but also encompasses the retro Diels-Alder (rDA) cyclo-reversion, which can be used to access compounds challenging to obtain by other means. rDA reactions are often used to prepare reactive olefins and can be used in conjunction with the forward DA to isolate reactive molecules, such as benzoquinone epoxide. \( ^{2,3} \)  However, the need for elevated temperatures to promote cyclo-reversion has limited use of the reaction in synthetic chemistry. Molecules that access the rDA at milder conditions have received more attention in recent years, \( ^{4} \)  particularly for their use in Dynamic Covalent Chemistry (DCC). \( ^{5,6} \)  To develop stimuli-responsive and adaptive materials, DCC looks to harness properties that can aid in polymer healing, reprocessibility, and other dynamic functionalities. \( ^{5,7-11} \)  Though there are few reports detailing the features of rDA reactions, there are examples of steric and electronic changes of the diene and dienophile that give rise to reversible reactions at milder temperatures, in the range of -10 - 60 °C, \( ^{12-14} \)  and at varying rates. \( ^{12,15} \)  We looked to systematically explore the frontiers of DA reversibility by exploiting the electron-rich and sterically tunable 2,3,6,7-tetramethoxy-9,10-dialkylanthracene (TMAnR) platform (Figure 1).

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[66, 751, 492, 790], [502, 336, 931, 532]]<|/det|>
Anthracene (An) is a common diene that can form DA adducts with a range of dienophiles, including substituted ethylenes and maleimides. \( ^{[16-20]} \)  The reaction between An and tetracyanoethylene (TCNE) has been well-characterized and is distinguished by a transient blue-green color, indicative of a charge-transfer (CT) interaction. \( ^{[21]} \)  An functions as the electron-rich donor with TCNE as the electron-poor acceptor. Through experimental and computational study of the reactions of both An and 9,10-dimethylanthracene (AnMe) with TCNE, this CT state has been identified as an intermediate on the reaction pathway, as opposed to a reversible side product. \( ^{[22-26]} \)  Our strategy for accessing extremes of DA reversibility centered around the stabilization of donating starting materials, leading us to focus on An-based aromatic donors that are electron-rich. TMAnR are not only highly donating \( ^{[27]} \)  but are also readily prepared with almost any alkyl or aryl substituent at the 9,10-positions by the combination of 1,2-dimethoxy-benzene (veratrole) and the appropriate aldehyde in sulfuric acid.

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[502, 532, 931, 623]]<|/det|>
Using the synthetic modularity of the TMAnR platform, we were able to tune the thermodynamics of the DA/rDA equilibrium for TMAnR and TCNE (Figure 1), resulting in kinetically accessible rDA reactivity between -70 and 55 °C depending on the 9,10-disubstituents. The observed DA/rDA thermodynamics are well-correlated to cyclic voltammetry, calculated ionization potentials, CT band energies, and DA

<|ref|>image<|/ref|><|det|>[[515, 626, 920, 816]]<|/det|>


<|ref|>figure_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[504, 821, 929, 892]]<|/det|>
Figure 1. (a) Scheme for the reaction of TMAnR with TCNE. TMAnR and TCNE are in dynamic equilibrium with a CT complex, which is an intermediate on the reaction pathway to the DA adduct. (b) Crystal structures of the DA adducts of AnMe (left) and TMAnHepT (right) and TCNE with thermal ellipsoids shown at 50% probability (C, grey; O, red; N, blue). Hydrogen atoms, additional, unbound equivalents of TCNE, and solvent molecules are omitted for clarity.