<|ref|>image<|/ref|><|det|>[[76, 85, 456, 316]]<|/det|>


<|ref|>figure_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[68, 321, 486, 368]]<|/det|>
Figure 5. Stopped-flow UV-vis kinetic traces for the disappearance of TMAnnBu-CT at 0.06 mM starting concentrations of TMAnnBu and TCNE. The raw data is shown as points with the fits as dotted lines. As the temperature is increased, the rate at which the CT band decays increase.

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[65, 370, 491, 539]]<|/det|>
(Figures S39 -42). Given the incomplete conversion to the DA adduct, the TMAnEtPh-CT decay cannot be fit to a mono-exponential decay (Figure S43). These measured rate constants  \( (k_{\mathrm{obs}}) \)  are considered to be close to the single-step rate constants for the formation of the DA adduct from the CT complex, and this approximation is used throughout the rest of the paper. This approach neglects two factors, 1) that a small part of the measured CT decay is from its reversion to neutral starting materials as their concentrations decline, and 2) that some cases perhaps should be modeled with approach to equilibrium kinetic expressions, as is clearly the case for TMAnEtPh-CT.

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[65, 541, 491, 697]]<|/det|>
The measured rate constants decreased significantly from AnMe to TMAnnHept, but even the slowest reaction for TMAnnHept-DA was complete in about one minute by stopped-flow. In the fastest case, full conversion to AnMe-DA occurred within the 10-15 ms mixing time of the instrument for all temperatures above -80 °C. In general, the rate constants increased with increasing temperatures, as expected. Converting the  \( k_{obs} \)  to free energy barriers at -80° showed that the  \( (\Delta G^{\ddagger}) \)  increased going from AnMe to TMAnMe and again from TMAnMe to TMAnEt (Table 3). The barriers are the same for TMAnEt, TMAnnBu, and TMAnnHept. Taken together, these

<|ref|>figure_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[99, 703, 440, 738]]<|/det|>
Table 3. Rate constants ( \( k_{obs} \) ) derived by fitting the stopped-flow experiments to a first-order expression. Reaction barriers for the formation of the DA adduct were calculated using the Eyring equation.

<|ref|>table<|/ref|><|det|>[[101, 741, 436, 882]]<|/det|>
<table><tr><td></td><td>\( k_{\text{obs,193K}} \)  (s \( ^{-1} \) )</td><td>\( \Delta G_{\text{DA}} \)  \( ^{\ddagger} \) 193K (kcal/mol)</td></tr><tr><td>AnMe</td><td>94</td><td>9</td></tr><tr><td>TMAnMe</td><td>2.3</td><td>11</td></tr><tr><td>TMAnEt</td><td>0.12</td><td>12</td></tr><tr><td>TMAnnBu</td><td>0.062</td><td>12</td></tr><tr><td>TMAnnHept</td><td>0.079</td><td>12</td></tr><tr><td>TMAnEtPh</td><td>-</td><td>-</td></tr></table>

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[503, 80, 928, 123]]<|/det|>
thermodynamic and kinetic parameters demonstrate that TMAnR is a versatile diene allowing for steric tuning of an rDA reaction that is observable and fast well below 25 °C.

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[504, 137, 656, 150]]<|/det|>
## X-ray Crystallography

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[502, 151, 930, 678]]<|/det|>
Our study of TMAnR-DA thus far indicated that adducts aside from TMAnMe-DA only form in appreciable amounts in solution at low temperatures. However, TMAnEt-DA, TMAnnBu-DA, and TMAnnHept-DA were all isolated as single crystals suitable for Single Crystal X-ray Diffraction (SCXRD) (Figure 6), either by evaporation of CT solutions (1:1.5 TMAnR:TCNE) at 25 °C for TMAnEt-DA and TMAnnBu-DA or at 5 °C for TMAnnHept-DA. The formation of DA adducts in the solid state likely arises from the initial crystallization of a CT complex, which rapidly cyclizes in the solid state. This phenomenon has been demonstrated previously for a variety of anthracene-based dienes and electron-poor dienophiles. \( ^{36-44} \)  Unlike in the previously published systems that remain as the DA adduct when re-dissolved, when crystals of TMAnEt-DA, TMAnnBu-DA, or TMAnnHept-DA are re-dissolved at room temperature they cyclo-revert rapidly, reforming equilibrium CT complexes in solution. Crystalline AnMe-DA, TMAnMe-DA, and TMAnEt-DA are completely colorless, as expected due to the breaking of conjugation. On the other hand, TMAnnBu-DA and TMAnnHept-DA crystals are orange and red, respectively. The color of these DA adduct single crystals is attributed to a trapped population of the CT complex that is too minor to model crystallographically. This is consistent with the proposed mechanism that DA crystals form through an initial CT complex that converts in the solid state. Such trapped CT populations are typical of crystals formed by this mechanism. \( ^{36-43} \)  A non-zero population of the CT complex was further confirmed by the presence of a CT band in the diffuse reflectance electronic absorption spectra (Figure S44 & S45). All DA adduct single crystals had solvent within the lattice, except for TMAnnHept-DA, which instead featured an additional two equivalents of cocrystallized TCNE. TMAnEtPh-DA did not form in the solid state; instead, a single crystal of TMAnEtPh-CT was obtained. The CT crystal structure consists of alternating layers of TMAnEtPh donor and TCNE acceptor, with TCNE oriented above the central ring of the anthracene and below the phenyl ring of the phenethyl substituent of a neighboring molecule.

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[502, 678, 930, 892]]<|/det|>
The stability of the DA adducts were indirectly assessed through comparison of bond lengths for the newly formed C-C bonds. The following trend is observed for the average C-C bond lengths: AnMe-DA < TMAnMe-DA < TMAnEt-DA < TMAnnBu-DA < TMAnnHept-DA (Figure 6). All the TMAnR-DA that are in dynamic equilibrium at or below RT have an average bond length of at least 1.62 Å compared to the bond length of 1.604(2) Å in AnMe-DA. We report the longest C-C DA bond to our knowledge for TMAnnHept-DA (1.637(4) Å), with the next longest reported by Hirsch et. al. in 2014 (1.622 Å). \( ^{45} \)  Lengthening of the C-C bonds within this system is attributed to electronic and steric features of TMAnR. The methoxy groups impart increased electron density, leading to a stronger CT interaction with TCNE. \( ^{46} \)  As the oxidation potentials for the TMAnR series are all within a similar range, the extent to which