<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[275, 118, 930, 162]]<|/det|>
to concentric regions of space (Stocker & Gezelter, 2014), allowing for simulations of heat transport away from nanostructures. In the following section, we explore the algorithm that makes non-periodic boundary simulations possible in OpenMD.

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[275, 167, 931, 283]]<|/det|>
Another novel RNEMD algorithm allows for particle positions to be swapped between RNEMD regions resulting in an applied particle flux. The scaled particle flux (SPF) method accurately calculates diffusion coefficients while maintaining energy and linear momentum constraints, and can map the temperature dependence of diffusion when used in tandem with a thermal flux in VSS-RNEMD. SPF-RNEMD has also been applied to interfacial systems of nanoporous graphene in a molecular fluid. In this case, permeabilities were computed by imposing a molecular flux between regions on opposite sides of the membrane and measuring both the hydraulic and osmotic pressure that develops as a result of this flux (Drisko & Gezelter, 2024).

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[277, 299, 401, 315]]<|/det|>
## Langevin Hull

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[275, 322, 931, 494]]<|/det|>
In many molecular simulations, systems have near-uniform compressibility, and OpenMD implements a range of integrators to sample the isothermal-isobaric (NPT) ensemble using the Nosé-Hoover-Andersen equations of motion. These integrators implement various forms of affine scaling to provide isotropic (NPTi) or fully-flexible (NPTf) scaling motions of the periodic box (Andersen, 1980; Hoover, 1986; Sturgeon & Laird, 2000). Additional constant pressure integrators use restricted affine scaling to enforce constant surface area (NPAT), constant surface tension (NP \( \gamma \) T), or even orthorhombic box geometries (NPTxyz). For systems comprising materials of different compressibilities, such as a solvated nanoparticle, scaled coordinate transformations may cause numerical instability or poor volume sampling depending on the strength of the applied barostat. Users may also wish to represent systems without the explicit periodicity required by box-scaling constant pressure methods. For example, proteins may be in artificially crowded environments if periodic box simulations are required.

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[275, 499, 931, 654]]<|/det|>
To address these problems, OpenMD implements a method called the Langevin Hull which samples the isothermal-isobaric (NPT) ensemble for non-periodic systems (Vardeman et al., 2011). The method, based on Langevin dynamics, couples an external bath at constant pressure, temperature, and effective solvent viscosity to the atomic sites on a dynamically-computed convex hull. This convex hull is defined as the set of facets that have no concave corners at an atomic site (Edelsbrunner & Mücke, 1994). The hull is computed using Delaunay triangulation between coplanar neighbors (Delaunay, 1934; Lee & Schachter, 1980). These computations are performed by the external Qu\(^{n}\)ll library (Barber et al., 1996), and are computed each time step, allowing molecules to move freely between the inner region and outer hull. Atoms in the interior evolve according to Newtonian mechanics. The equations of motion for sites on the hull,

<|ref|>equation<|/ref|><|det|>[[352, 665, 928, 725]]<|/det|>
 \[ \begin{align*}m_{i}\dot{\boldsymbol{\nu}}_{i}(t)&=-\nabla_{i}U+\mathbf{F}_{i}^{\mathrm{ext}}\\&=-\nabla_{i}U+\sum_{f}\frac{1}{3}\left(-\hat{\mathbf{n}}_{f}PA_{f}-\Xi_{f}(t)\left(\frac{1}{3}\sum_{i=1}\mathbf{v}_{i}\right)+\mathbf{R}_{f}(t)\right)\end{align*} \quad (2) \] 

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[275, 734, 930, 808]]<|/det|>
include additional forces from the external bath. Each facet f on the convex hull has a contribution from a pressure bath acting in proportion to the facet's surface area and in the direction of the surface normal  \( (- \hat{\mathbf{n}}_{f} PA_{f}) \) . The facets of the hull are also in contact with an implicit solvent which provides a drag on the velocity of the facet according to an approximate resistance tensor,  \( (- \Xi_{f} \mathbf{v}_{f}) \)  and which also kicks the facet via a Gaussian random force  \( (\mathbf{R}_{f}) \) .

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[275, 812, 931, 899]]<|/det|>
Computation of a convex hull is  \( \mathcal{O}(N\log N) \)  for sequential machines and remains the performance bottleneck for parallelization. In parallel, the global convex hull is computed using the union of sites from all local (processor-specific) hulls. Testing and validation for this method were carried out on three unique systems, a gold nanoparticle and an SPC/E water droplet (both with uniform compressibilities), and a gold nanoparticle solvated in SPC/E water (non-uniform compressibility), shown in Fig. 1. This method was shown to work well across