<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[48, 81, 479, 160]]<|/det|>
of T-cell activation. \( ^{5} \)  Inhibition of the interaction between PD-1 and its ligands promote immune responses and antigen-specific T-cell responses to both foreign antigens as well as self-antigens. Many cancers express and upregulate PD-L1 and PD-L2 as an immune escape mechanism leading to evasion of the host's antitumor immune response. \( ^{6} \) 

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[48, 160, 479, 345]]<|/det|>
Nivolumab is a fully human IgG4 anti-PD-1 mAb also known as Opdivo, BMS-936558, MDX-1106, and ONO-4538. \( ^{7} \)  Japan approved nivolumab as the world's first PD-1 checkpoint inhibitor in July 2014 for advanced melanoma. It has approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and European Medicines Agency for advanced melanoma, advanced squamous non-small cell lung cancer, and other indications. \( ^{8,9} \)  Multiple clinical trials of single and combination therapy with the anti-CTL antigen-4 mAb, ipilimumab (Yervoy), are ongoing at the time of this publication. \( ^{10,11} \)  Nivolumab targets PD-1 on CTLs thus preventing binding to PD-L1 and subsequent inactivation of the host immune response. There are clinical trials for anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 antibodies creating competition in the pre-clinical and clinical research space. \( ^{12} \) 

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[48, 345, 479, 609]]<|/det|>
In recent years, a number of radioisotopes have been employed for antibody-based positron emission tomography (PET) and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging. For labeling of biologics, including mAbs, the focus is on matching the half-life of the biologic and isotope for optimal imaging. \( ^{13} \)  SPECT imaging is lower cost and more ubiquitous than PET, but has lower contrast and spatial resolution. \( ^{14} \)  The covalently bonded PET isotope  \( {}^{124} \) I has a half-life of 4.18 days (100.3 h) suited for mAb labeling and is also non-residualizing. However,  \( {}^{124} \) I suffers limitations due to thyroid uptake following in vivo dehalogenation as well as decreased resolution. \( ^{15} \)  Chelator based PET radioisotopes for labeling mAbs and fragments include  \( {}^{68} \) Ga,  \( {}^{64} \) Cu, and  \( {}^{86} \) Y with half-lives of 1.1, 12.7, and 14.7 h, respectively. \( ^{16} \)   \( {}^{89} \) Zr with a longer half-life of 3.27 days (78.4 h) and relatively low positron energy of 395.5 keV is particularly well suited for imaging of full mAbs, because pharmacokinetics can require days for optimal biodistribution. \( ^{17,18} \)  Given that nivolumab has a dose-dependent half-life of 5 (1 mg/kg) to 10 days (10 mg/kg) in NHPs,  \( {}^{89} \) Zr was chosen as a compatible isotope for preliminary pre-clinical imaging in NHPs. \( ^{19} \) 

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[48, 608, 480, 872]]<|/det|>
Desferrioxamine (DFO) is the most common chelator for  \( {}^{89} \) Zr-labeling, available commercially as  \( {}^{89} \) Zr-oxalate. \( ^{17} \)  There are many other chelators for  \( {}^{89} \) Zr, but DFO is the most widely used for in vivo imaging due to stability of the DFO- \( Zr^{4+} \)  complex, the commercial availability of DFO, and translational use in human clinical imaging. \( ^{14} \)  Modification of mAbs with DFO can be achieved by bioconjugation to lysine amino acid residues with amine reactive linkers such as succinylate or isothiocyanate (SCN) chemistry. \( ^{20} \)  It is important to determine the conjugate to antibody ratio (CAR) to minimize loss of biological activity from over modification. Site-specific DFO labeling of mAbs has been examined using thiol reactive linkers with engineered cysteine residues on the mAb trastuzumab. \( ^{21} \)  Labeling of the clinical asset nivolumab is ideally done through random lysine conjugation since it does not require reengineering or deglycosylation of the nivolumab mAb. Binding of the modified DFO-mAb should be compared to the parent mAb by cell binding assays, surface plasmon resonance (SPR), or an equivalent technique to make sure modification has not significantly altered the biological activity of the mAb.

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[48, 871, 480, 953], [498, 81, 932, 148]]<|/det|>
PET imaging in combination with computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can provide valuable guidance in drug development for antibody based therapies in animal models by providing real time dynamic imaging of potential drug candidates. \( ^{[22]} \)  PET labeled mAbs can also aid in early clinical trials by improving patient selection and dose parameters while providing valuable insight into patient dose responses. \( ^{[23,24]} \)  As of 2015 more than 15 mAbs have been  \( {}^{89} \) Zr-labeled for clinical PET imaging in cancer patients, a growing area of research. \( ^{[25,26]} \)  This study reports the first radiolabeling procedure and in vivo evaluation of  \( {}^{89} \) Zr-nivolumab in healthy NHPs.

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[501, 168, 614, 183]]<|/det|>
## 2. Experimental

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[501, 194, 740, 208]]<|/det|>
## 2.1. Nivolumab conjugation with DFO

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[499, 220, 931, 287]]<|/det|>
Nivolumab was modified by formation of a thiourea linkage to the bifunctional DFO chelator derivative, 1-(4-isothiocyanatophenyl)-3-[6,17-dihydroxy-7,10,18,21-tetraoxo-27-(N-acetylhydroxylamino)-6,11,17,22-tetraazaheptaecisoanet]thiourea (p-SCN-Bn-DFO, Scheme. 1, step 1, Macrocyclics, B-705).

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[499, 287, 932, 419]]<|/det|>
Nivolumab (10 mg/mL in sodium citrate, sodium chloride, mannitol, diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (DTPA) and polysorbate 80 (Tween 80), pH 6.0; Bristol-Myers Squibb, lot 3A78017) was diluted 10-fold in 0.1 M NaHCO \( _{3} \) , pH 9.0. A 20-fold excess of p-SCN-Bn-DFO in 1 mL DMSO was added to the mAb (10 mg in 9 mL) and incubated for 3 h at room temperature. Precipitant was removed by 0.22  \( \mu \) m syringe filtration and the unconjugated chelate was removed by SEC using a HiLoad 26/60 Superdex 200 column (GE Healthcare) and PBS buffer (150 mM NaCl, 200 mM NaPO \( _{4} \) , pH 7.2, Sigma-Aldrich) as eluent.

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[499, 419, 931, 485]]<|/det|>
The purity was determined by analytical SEC (10/300 GL Superdex 200, PBS buffer mobile phase) and protein concentration by NanoDrop 2000c spectrophotometer. A CAR was calculated from the relative peak intensities in the deconvoluted LC/MS spectra of intact and/or reduced nivolumab-DFO.

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[499, 484, 932, 696]]<|/det|>
SPR experiments were performed to calculate the  \( K_{D} \)  for human PD-1 (hPD1(25–167)-Myc-TVMV-His, Bristol-Myers Squibb) to nivolumab and nivolumab-DFO. \( ^{27} \)  Each study was done at 25 °C using a ProteOn XPR36 instrument with a running buffer of PBS with 0.05% Tween (TEKNOVA, P1192), that is held constant throughout the experiment. An anti-human IgG mAb was directly immobilized via amine coupling on a GLC sensor chip. The chip surface was then activated with a 1:1 mixture of 40 mM N-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-N-ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride (EDC) and 10 mM N-hydroxysulfosuccinimide (NHS) for 5 min (BioRad, Proteo Anime Coupling Kit, 1762410). AffiniPure goat anti-human IgG (HC + LC) was injected at 10  \( \mu \) g/mL in sodium acetate pH 5 for 2 min (Jackson Immuno Research Laboratories, West Grove, PA, cat #109-005-003, Lot:100508). Remaining reactive groups were blocked by treatment with 1M ethanolamine-HCl, pH 8.5 for 5 min.

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[498, 696, 932, 854]]<|/det|>
Response levels obtained for the primary mAb were approximately 3000 RU. Nivolumab and nivolumab-DFO were captured on the surface by the anti-human IgG to a response level of approximately 550 RU. Five concentrations of hPD-1 (from 40 nM to 2.5 nM, with a 2-fold serial dilution in the running buffer) were injected at 30  \( \mu \) L/min for 3 min and the dissociation was monitored for 10 min. Surfaces were regenerated with two injections of 0.85%  \( H_{3}PO_{4} \)  (100  \( \mu \) L/min for 18 s). SPR Data was analyzed using the ProteoOn Manager Software v3.1 and interspot data was used as reference and a buffer injection was used as double reference. Processed data was fit to a simple 1:1 Langmuir binding model.

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[500, 871, 852, 886]]<|/det|>
## 2.2. Radiolabeling and quality control of  \( ^{89} \) Zr-nivolumab

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[499, 897, 932, 952]]<|/det|>
 \( ^{89} \) Zr-oxalic acid was produced via the  \( {}^{89} \) Y(p,n) \( ^{89} \) Zr transmutation reaction on a cyclotron and procured from IBA Molecular North America, Inc. (Richmond, VA) with overnight delivery to Bristol-Myers Squibb (Princeton, NJ). The  \( {}^{89} \) Zr-nivolumab was