<|ref|>image<|/ref|><|det|>[[90, 81, 470, 872]]<|/det|>


<|ref|>figure_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[66, 879, 490, 893]]<|/det|>
Scheme 1. Nivolumab conjugation to p-SCN-Bn-DFO and radiolabeling with  \( ^{89} \) Zr \( ^{4+} \) .

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[65, 910, 494, 951], [515, 82, 946, 174]]<|/det|>
prepared from  \( {}^{89} \) Zr-oxalate and nivolumab-DFO following the procedures reported by Vosjan and co-workers with minor modifications (Scheme. 1, step 2). \( ^{28} \)  An average of 15 mCi of  \( {}^{89} \) Zr-oxalic acid in 300  \( \mu \) L was neutralized with 300  \( \mu \) L of 2 M Na \( _{2} \) CO \( _{3} \) . The volume was then diluted with 0.5 mL of 0.5 M HEPES buffer (pH 7.2). To this solution, nivolumab-DFO was added (0.5 mL of 1.5 mg/mL, 750  \( \mu \) g) then an additional 0.2 mL HEPES to bring the volume to 1.8 mL, gently mixed, and held at room temperature for 1 h. Due to the nature of  \( {}^{89} \) Zr production, reagent volumes are optimized from the received volume of  \( {}^{89} \) Zr-oxalic acid.

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[515, 174, 947, 413]]<|/det|>
The reaction was transferred to a PD-10 column (GE Healthcare) previously equilibrated with PBS buffer prior to loading of sample and eluted with PBS buffer. A void volume of 0.7 mL was discarded followed by the collection of four fractions of 1–1.5 mL based on radioactive counts eluting from the column. Generally the first 1 mL fraction contained minimal radioactivity followed by a 1.5 mL fraction with the majority of purified  \( {}^{89} \) Zr-nivolumab that would be used in imaging. Two additional fractions of 1 and 1.5 mL were collected and determined to contain additional  \( {}^{89} \) Zr-nivolumab and other radioactive components. The radioactive counts were monitored during fraction collection to optimize purity of  \( {}^{89} \) Zr-nivolumab. Radioactivity of each fraction was recorded and the purity determined by SEC (10/300 GL Superdex 200, PBS buffer mobile phase) with specific activity calculated from NanoDrop protein concentration. The product was sterile filtered for NHP imaging through a sterile Syringe Filter (0.2  \( \mu \) m) into a sterile vial fitted with a sterile vent filter (0.2  \( \mu \) m).

<|ref|>sub_title<|/ref|><|det|>[[517, 424, 670, 438]]<|/det|>
## 2.3. Animal preparation

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[515, 451, 946, 503]]<|/det|>
All animal procedures were in strict accordance with the recommendations of the animal care and use committee (ACUC) of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company for the care and use of laboratory animals.

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[515, 503, 947, 885]]<|/det|>
PET images were acquired (microPET F220 scanner (Siemens Preclinical Solutions, Knoxville, TN)) were acquired and co-registered with MRI (4.7 T/40 cm system (Bruker Biospin, Billerica MA)) on three male cynomolgus (Macaca fascicularis) NHPs weighing  \( 4.97 \pm 0.51 \)  kg. Each NHP underwent a radiotracer only (tracer only), or radiotracer with carrier-added (1 or 3 mg/kg of nivolumab) imaging study. On day 0, following a  \( \sim12 \)  h fast, the NHPs were sedated with an intramuscular injection of ketamine to allow placement of a cephalic indwelling intravenous (IV) catheter for administration of dose of 0, 1 or 3 mg/kg nivolumab. On days 1, 4, 6 and 8, when co-registered PET and MRI studies were performed, anesthesia was induced with an intramuscular combination injection of 0.02 mg/kg atropine, 5 mg/kg ketamine, and 0.01 mg/kg buprenorphine. The NHPs were then maintained on 0.5–2% isoflurane inhalant with 100% oxygen at 1–2 L/min and vacuum scavenging. Once anesthetized, each NHP was placed in a tubular plastic imaging bed to maintain positioning between the PET and MRI during system transfer and to provide precise anatomical alignment. If necessary, ventilator tidal volume was utilized at 10–20 mL/kg for the procedure to maintain sufficient  \( EtCO_{2} \)  levels. Every 15 min the NHPs'  \( SpO_{2} \) ,  \( EtCO_{2} \) , body temperature, respiratory rate (RR), and heart rate (HR) were recorded. In addition, Lactated Ringer's Solution was provided as a constant rate infusion via an indwelling IV catheter during the procedure at approximately 10 mL/kg/hr until the conclusion of imaging. Body temperature was sustained during anesthesia events using warm water recirculating pads placed under the NHPs during the scans and in recovery.

<|ref|>text<|/ref|><|det|>[[515, 885, 947, 952]]<|/det|>
To measure concentration of nivolumab in carrier-added groups, blood samples were collected pre- and post-infusion on day 0, as well as on days 1, 4, 6, and 8. All samples were collected in EDTA Vacutainer \( ^{\circledR} \)  tubes (Becton, Dickinson and Company), centrifuged to separate the plasma, frozen for 33 days to allow